So now we have position which is just like
our earlier example of the coordinate
system, but now we're able to change
the position of this mesh, and
you can try changing this.
So mesh.position is a vector three.
So you could say
mesh.position.setScalar(0.5) and
it's gonna set the xyz to the same, or for
example you could say mesh.position and
then set which is gonna allow you to
change the x y and z values independently.
So yeah it's a vector 3 so it's just look
into the docs there if you're confused or
you need a refresher about that.
And then rotation, so rotation is similar
to vector 3 but it's called Euler,
but for our purposes, we can think of
it like a vector three has an x, y,
z as well has a lot of the same
functions like set, setscalar, etc.
And rotation allows us to rotate a mesh
around these three axes, so rotation is
something that's when you first encounter
in 3D it can be kind of mind bending.
And so the way I like to think about it is
with my arms or with my fingers, and so
generally speaking, when we're working
in WebGL, the y axis goes up and down,
and so you can put your arms up and
down and that would be the y axis.
And so if we're rotating something around
the y axis, we're literally rotating
it around this axis as if you're
like spinning around a pole or
something like that in the fire station.
And then the x axis would
be this sort of formation,
where you have your arms
out to either side, and
you're rotating an object
around this axis here,
and so
that would be the actual form of rotation.
And so you could see how,
when we rotate this cube,
it's as if we're rotating
around that that line.
And then the Z axis would be front and
back, and
it's the same concept we're just
rotating it around this way.
And so you can either use your arms or
another tip is to use your fingers where
you point yourself a gun with your thumb
up, your right hand, and
your first finger out.
Just like a gun and then you stick your
second finger, your middle finger up, sort
of perpendicular to your index, your first
finger and it creates the same structure.
With the thumb going up and down for
y, the middle finger going left and
right for x, and your first finger
here going forward backwards for z.
So that's just a bit of a way to
remember these kind of things.
You'll often see me when I'm working with
3D math, I'll just put out the gun and
sort of visualise how I wanna rotate
something, so it's pretty helpful.
And then lastly we have scale, so
this is another property of mesh,
that allows us to scale objects in the X,
Y, Z, this is a vector THREE, so
we have all those same commands.
Okay, and the last thing that ties
everything together is the scene, and
so, the scene graph is a bit like the DOM
tree, we can place objects into it and
then we can place objects into those
objects and so on and so forth.
We can create this tree of different
meshes that makes up a scene,
a virtual 3D scene.
So you just create a scene which is an
empty object, and then you go through and
when you create a mesh after the mesh
is created, you say scene.add and
then the name of the mesh, and
that will add it into the scene.
Without this line, if we're gonna comment
this line out, the mesh wouldn't appear.
So if you're working with 3D and
you don't see a mesh,
just make sure it's been
added to the scene.
Sometimes it might have been
added to another object, but
that object hasn't been
added to the scene.
So just make sure